How java program is executed?

Java programs involve includes two steps of execution:

1. First, source '.java' file is passed through compiler, which converts your source code into machine-independent encoding, known as bytecode.

2. class files generated by compiler are independent of platform, which allows them to run on any system.
This '.class' file is passed through JVM, and goes to three main stages before execution of final code.
    a. class Loader
    b. Bytecode verifier
    c. Just-in-time compiler

3. class loader : The class is loaded into memory bypassing its '.class' file to the JVM.

4. Bytecode verifier : After the bytecode of a class is loaded by the class loader, it has to be inspected by the bytecode verifier,
   whose job is to check that the instructions don’t perform damaging actions.

5. Just-in-time compiler :  When using a JIT compiler, the hardware can execute the native code,
   as opposed to having the JVM interpret the same sequence of bytecode repeatedly and incurring the penalty of a relatively lengthy translation process.
   This can lead to performance gains in the execution speed unless methods are executed less frequently.


Overview of execution of java program :

Source code->(javac compiler) --> Bytecode(.class) --> (class loader)->(Bytecode verifier)->(Just-in-time compiler) --> Native machine code

closer look at hello-world program

class HelloWorld :
class keyword is used to define a new class, while HelloWorld is the name of the class.

public static void main(String[] args) :
1. main() method is the execution point for any java program.
2. public - It is an access modifier to which tells the JVM that main() can be accessed outside the class.
3. static - static keyword allows JVM to call main() method without creating an instance of particular class.
4. void - It tells the compiler that main() does not return a value.

System.out.println() :
1. System - System is a predefined class the provides access to the system.
2. out - It is the output stream that is connected to console.
3. println() - It is built-in method which displays string to console.
